[CLOUDCRAFT-934] Datadog Integration (#25253)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloudcraft/getting-started/datadog-integration.md

---
title: Datadog Integration
---

## Overview

The integration between Datadog and Cloudcraft provides users with a streamlined workflow for monitoring and visualizing their cloud infrastructure.

By leveraging Datadog’s powerful monitoring platform, users can log in to Cloudcraft with their Datadog account, move seamlessly from any resource in Cloudcraft to the most relevant views in Datadog, and automatically synchronize cloud accounts that have already been configured in Datadog for use in Cloudcraft.

## Datadog Single Sign-On (SSO)

> Cloudcraft allows users to sign up and log in using their Datadog account. This integration offers a unified experience, linking your Datadog monitoring data seamlessly with your Cloudcraft architecture diagrams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudcraft allows users to sign up and log in using their Datadog account. This integration offers a unified experience, linking your Datadog monitoring data with your Cloudcraft architecture diagrams.
```
"Seamlessly" appears in the section immediately above, so just looking to avoid overuse.

> ### Signing up with Datadog SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sign up with Datadog SSO
```
Just making headers consistent, you can also use "ing" in all headers if you prefer, but the simple present tense can be slightly better for SEO.

> To get started, choose the **Sign up with Datadog** option during the Cloudcraft sign-up process. After signing up, you can log in to Cloudcraft using your Datadog credentials. This not only simplifies the login process but also enables integration between the two platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, choose the **Sign up with Datadog** option during the Cloudcraft sign-up process. After signing up, you can log in to Cloudcraft using your Datadog credentials. This simplifies the login process and enables integration between the two platforms.
```

By using Datadog SSO, you automatically gain access to:

- **Cross-platform functionality**: Move effortlessly between Cloudcraft and Datadog to analyze your cloud infrastructure and its performance.
- **Automated cloud account synchronization**: Cloud accounts configured in Datadog sync automatically with Cloudcraft, giving you a complete view of your infrastructure in both platforms.

> ### Enabling Datadog SSO for existing accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable Datadog SSO for existing accounts
```

If you originally signed up with a different login method, for example, Google SSO or a standard username and password, you won’t have access to the full set of Datadog integration features. To switch to Datadog SSO, [contact the Cloudcraft support team][1] and they will assist you in converting your account.

## Sync cloud accounts

<div class="alert alert-info">This feature supports only Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts. Syncing with Azure or other cloud providers is not available at this time.</div>

> The integration between Cloudcraft and Datadog streamlines cloud account management, allowing your cloud accounts to sync automatically between the two platforms. After adding your cloud account to Datadog, it is automatically synced with Cloudcraft, so there's no need to add the account separately in Cloudcraft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration between Cloudcraft and Datadog streamlines cloud account management, allowing your cloud accounts to sync between the two platforms. When you add your cloud account to Datadog, the cloud account is automatically added to and synced with Cloudcraft, so there's no need to add the account separately in Cloudcraft.
```
Just trying to avoid repetition / add clarity.

### How it works

> 1. **Add your cloud account to Datadog**: Once you integrate your AWS account with Datadog, Cloudcraft will automatically recognize the account without any further action required on your part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Add your cloud account to Datadog**: Once you integrate your AWS account with Datadog, Cloudcraft automatically recognizes the account without further action on your part.
```

> 2. **Resource Collection**: Ensure that **Resource Collection** is enabled in Datadog for this feature to function properly. Without this setting, the sync between Datadog and Cloudcraft will not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Resource Collection**: Ensure that **Resource Collection** is enabled in Datadog for this feature to function properly. Without this setting, the sync between Datadog and Cloudcraft does not work.
```

For detailed instructions on how to add your AWS account to Datadog and enable Resource collection, please refer to the [AWS integration documentation][2].

## The Bits menu

The Bits menu in Cloudcraft is your gateway to accessing relevant Datadog insights from any resource in your architecture diagram. Whether you need to look at logs, view APM traces, or analyze metrics, the Bits menu offers seamless, context-driven navigation from Cloudcraft to Datadog with just a click.

> For more detailed information on how to use the Bits menu, please refer to our full documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed information on how to use the Bits menu, please refer to [the full documentation][3].
```

> - [Using the Bits menu][3]

Reviewer: I would remove this line, integrating the link into the previous sentence as I suggested in the line above -- just more typical of our style.

By using Datadog SSO, you automatically gain access to:

- **Cross-platform functionality**: Move effortlessly between Cloudcraft and Datadog to analyze your cloud infrastructure and its performance.
- **Automated cloud account synchronization**: Cloud accounts configured in Datadog sync automatically with Cloudcraft, giving you a complete view of your infrastructure in both platforms.

### Enable Datadog SSO for existing accounts

If you originally signed up with a different login method, for example, Google SSO or a standard username and password, you won’t have access to the full set of Datadog integration features. To switch to Datadog SSO, [contact the Cloudcraft support team][1] and they will assist you in converting your account.

## Pull cloud accounts

<div class="alert alert-info">This feature supports only Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts. Syncing with Azure or other cloud providers is not available at this time.</div>

> The integration between Cloudcraft and Datadog streamlines cloud account management, allowing accounts already configured in Datadog to be automatically pulled into Cloudcraft. No additional setup is required in Cloudcraft as long as resource collection is enabled in Datadog.

Reviewer 2: Indicate that the accounts sourced from Datadog are by default available to everyone similar to how it works in DD

### How it works

> 1. **Pulling cloud accounts**: Once your AWS account is integrated with Datadog, Cloudcraft automatically pulls the account, so you don’t need to manually add it to Cloudcraft.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if we need a separate section for how it works or if it can be just 2 small paragraphs under "Cloud Account Registration"

Consider changing "How it works" section into a second para talking about resource collection - something like:

To visualize and diagram resources in Cloudcraft, ensure resource collection (provide link) is enabled in Datadog.
When resource collection is enabled, Datadog collects information about your AWS resources by making read-only API calls to your AWS account. Cloudcraft relies on this information for visualizing your infrastructure.

2. **Resource Collection in Datadog**: To visualize and diagram resources in Cloudcraft, ensure resource collection is enabled in Datadog. Without this feature, your AWS accounts will still be pulled into Cloudcraft, but no resources from them will be available for diagramming. Refer to the [AWS integration documentation][2] for steps on enabling resource collection.
3. **No AWS accounts in Datadog?**: If you don't have any AWS accounts added in Datadog, you'll need to add them first. Follow the instructions in the [AWS integration guide][3].

> ### Manage pulled AWS accounts in Cloudcraft

Reviewer 2: Change "pulled" to "Sourced Datatdog"

> AWS accounts pulled from Datadog are marked with the Bits icon in the account selector under the **Live** tab in Cloudcraft. These accounts are shared with the entire team by default.

Reviewer 2: Add an image to show what you mean by "bits icon"

To manage the visibility settings of these accounts:

1. Go to **User > AWS Accounts**.

> 2. Select the **Edit** icon (the pencil icon next to the account name).

Reviewer 2: 1. Add a screen shot to showcase how the sourced AWS account looks different from the manually registered one.
2. Mention change to name or visibliyt does not have any impact within Datadog
3. Missing the ability to edit the name of the account if they want a more friendly name in CC,

3. Toggle the **Visibility on Live** tab option to control whether the account is visible to the team.

### Performance benefits

> AWS accounts pulled from Datadog offer improved performance when creating diagrams in Cloudcraft compared to accounts added directly in Cloudcraft, as Cloudcraft uses Datadog APIs, which are optimized for faster performance, instead of AWS APIs.

Reviewer 2: This is not true reason - the reason why it is faster because the data is already collected and stored by Datadog (so it is not real time but ~ 15 min old.

The integration between Cloudcraft and Datadog streamlines cloud account management, allowing accounts already configured in Datadog to be automatically added to Cloudcraft. No additional setup is required in Cloudcraft as long as resource collection is enabled in Datadog and these accounts are shared with the entire team by default.

{{< img src="cloudcraft/getting-started/datadog-integration/manage-aws-accounts.png" alt="Manage AWS accounts interface in Cloudcraft with Datadog integration." responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

To visualize and diagram resources in Cloudcraft, [ensure resource collection is enabled in Datadog][2]. When resource collection is enabled, Datadog collects information about your AWS resources by making read-only API calls to your AWS account. Cloudcraft relies on this information for visualizing your infrastructure. Without this feature, your AWS accounts will still be added to Cloudcraft, but no resources from them will be available for diagramming.

If you don't have any AWS accounts added in Datadog, you'll need to add them first. Follow the instructions in the [AWS integration guide][3].

> ### How it works

Author: Ops, I actually forgot to remove it. Good catch.
